Code of Conduct
---------------

Our goal with BSides Toronto is to bring the Toronto InfoSec community
together for a conference about the excitement, joy, and surprise of
Information/Cyber Security.

We value the participation of each member of the community and want
all attendees to have an enjoyable and fulfilling experience.
Accordingly, all attendees are expected to show respect and courtesy
to other attendees throughout the conference and at all conference
events, whether officially sponsored by BSides Toronto or not.

All attendees, speakers, exhibitors, organizers and volunteers at any
BSides Toronto event are required to observe the following Code of
Conduct. Organizers will enforce this code throughout the event. 

The Short Version
=================

BSides Toronto is dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference
experience for everyone, regardless of gender, sexual orientation,
disability, physical appearance, body size, race, religion, or
anything else. We do not tolerate harassment of conference
participants in any form.

All communication and behaviours should be appropriate for a
professional audience including people of many different backgrounds.
Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate for any conference
venue, including talks.

Be kind to others. Do not insult or put down other attendees. Behave
professionally. Remember that harassment and sexist, racist, or
exclusionary jokes are not appropriate for BSides Toronto.

Attendees violating these rules may be asked to leave the conference
at the sole discretion of the conference organizers.

Thank you for helping make this a welcoming, friendly event for all.


The Longer Version 
==================

Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender,
sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race,
religion, sexual images in public spaces, deliberate intimidation,
stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained
disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate physical contact,
derisive comments regarding technical background, and unwelcome sexual
attention.

Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately.

Be careful in the words that you choose. Remember that sexist, racist,
and other exclusionary jokes can be offensive to those around you.
Excessive swearing and offensive jokes are not appropriate for BSides
Toronto.

If a participant engages in behavior that violates the anti-harassment
policy, the conference organizers may take any action they deem
appropriate, including warning the offender or expulsion from the
conference. 

Social Rules 
============

In addition to having a code of conduct as an anti-harassment policy,
we have a small set of social rules we follow. We (the organizers)
learned and lifted these rules from Hacker School, where we felt that
they contributed enormously to a supportive, productive, and fun
learning environment. We'd like BsidesTO to share that environment. These
rules are intended to be lightweight, and to make more explicit
certain social norms that are normally implicit. Most of our social
rules really boil down to “don't be a jerk“ or “don't be annoying.” Of
course, almost nobody sets out to be a jerk or annoying, so telling
people not to be jerks isn't a very productive strategy.

Unlike the anti-harassment policy, violation of the social rules will
not result in expulsion from the conference or a strong warning from
conference organizers. Rather, they are designed to provide some
lightweight social structure for conference attendees to use when
interacting with each other.

[The social rules](https://www.hackerschool.com/manual#sub-sec-social-rules)

If you have any questions about any part of the code of conduct or social rules, please feel free to reach out to any of the conference organizers.

In addition to having a code of conduct as an
anti-harassment policy, we have a small set of social rules we follow.
We (the organizers) feel that social rules help contribute enormously
to a supportive, productive, and fun learning environment which is
what we want BSides Toronto to be and we hope you do too. These rules
are intended to be lightweight, and to make more explicit certain
social norms that are normally implicit.

Our social rules really boil down to “don't be a jerk“, “don't be
annoying” but that’s not constructive telling people not to be a jerk
or annoying; instead we ask you to “act like a professional” and “be a
positive member of the community that leaves a good impression with
everyone”. We’re not going to enumerate the hundred and one ways that
you could choose to be annoying or a jerk but we will call a few
lessons learned from our experience last year:

icause (or something like that) Questions If you have any questions
about any part of the code of conduct or social rules, please feel
free to reach out to any of the conference organizers. Contact
Information If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is
being harassed, or have any other concerns, please contact a member of
conference staff (they’re wearing t-shirts that say “crew”).

Conference staff will be happy to help participants contact local law enforcement, provide escorts, or otherwise assist those experiencing harassment to feel safe for the duration of the conference. We value your attendance.
License
The BSides Toronto Code of Conduct is under a Creative Commons Zero license. It was forked from the !!Con 2014 Code of Conduct which was forked from the PyCon 2013 Code of Conduct, which is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License, and which itself was forked from an example policy from the Geek Feminism wiki, created by the Ada Initiative and other volunteers and available under a Creative Commons Zero license.
